The Joe Rogan experience.
I think you said it also very, very good point, which is who,
who has the time? That's a big one. I mean,
because it does take me three times longer to read,
to read a news article because I got a vet. I don't have to,
I could be like a lot of other, probably most people,
but they're counting on it. If I, if I read this county, doesn't fly with me,
I sit there and I go look up and I grew research. I mean,
we don't all have a Jamie right next to us as, you know,
checking everything that we say and calling us out if I was wrong,
it's like the idea that forever for this whole time,
I thought that Jay Z said that quote. Right. And then, then I was like, well,
I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, but you know, and so, but it's like,
but we don't have most people don't take that time.
Like if somebody else would have corrected me on the, on the, on the bus,
I don't know if anybody would have taken the time to Google that and make sure.
Well, that's not even important. Right?
Not even important. Right. [inaudible].
Yeah. Have to look up and try to figure out, like,
why are we in Afghanistan or why is this happening?
Or why is that important and why is this lobbying passed? Or what's, you know,
what's the real motivation behind this drug being pushed? Like what,
what the is going on with that guy?
Who's and that there's so much of that in this world that you could
lose yourself.
Like if you didn't have a job and your entire day was
sifting through the news and trying to find truthful narratives versus
propaganda, you would lose your mom.
How much did you think is that because how much you think right now, the,
the exaggeration of it is because of that,
because that people have a chance to now consume so much
of this information. I think that, you know,
locking people in their house where they just have access to the internet.
I think I thought about it this way. When I remember we were in, um,
the beginnings of our first quarantine tent, a lockdown thing, and I was like,
I still had Netflix and I still had FaceTime and I still
had, I mean, it didn't, I was like, this is fine. Like, I really,
it wasn't that bad. I wasn't going crazy. But I was like,
imagine if this happened in 1985, right, right. I mean, and you,
and you had to wait until the next morning to get a newspaper. Well,
maybe the newspaper wouldn't even be printed because nobody worked in the
newspaper when you literally.
And imagine if the newspaper was as full of as CNN is, and then you got,
you you're lost. You really don't know what's true. Or what's, what's lies.
What's propaganda have that one thing. And so I was thinking like, man, how,
how difficult would it have been?
How much more isolated would it have been if we just can only get the
information twice a day, once a day.
And at one channel to two or three channels,
local news or whatever it was, you know, we didn't even have that guy, you know,
whatever.
So it was so much propaganda back then. They just slipped through the cracks.
It took forever before something can hit the light of day.
Right, right. Where something was an obvious, like especial at government,
like the alpha Tonkin incident that led us into Vietnam.
And there's a bunch of those yeah. Instances where,
oh my God. And there was agreements with the news,
the news had agreements with politicians and, and government agencies and they,
you know, they followed the narrative.
And I just, yeah.
So I think that maybe us now with access to all this information and all this
content and all this data and all these people,
all these voices of somebody that used to two,
10 minutes of Twitter now doing four hours of Twitter and just sit there and
getting in these little rabbit holes. I mean, it's gotta be damaging. I got to,
like we said, a lot of it is junk food. I'd treated a lot of it, like junk food.
Like, you know, I live with potato chips every once in a while,
but if I ate it for eight hours a day,
I think it would probably be pretty unhealthy.
And so it's like consuming this kind of garbage.
Yeah. There's a guy named Alan [inaudible] he's, uh, he's,
he's looked at it in the same way. Look at process food.
That's how he described it. He's like, you, you,
you can't eat all processed food and you can't eat all processed information.
And that's what it is.
It's like this social media version of information is just processed
information. Right. And you're getting it and these weird sort of bursts,
and it's all boiled down with preservatives on it and filled with nonsense.
And it has an agenda. And it's like, you know,
I think that there's a monetization of, of human suffering,
I think is difficult. You know, anytime you have that opportunity to where,
because it's more interesting and it's more,
you want eyeballs onto your content. So you just, it's,
it's a very simple algorithm. It's just, we just need eyeballs.
So whatever got people to watch it,
and then let's get more of that instead of stuff. That's not interesting,
you know, that's might be just very boring data, you know?
And so I think you just tend to lean towards that kind of stuff a little bit.
And I think it's tough. Yeah. I, I just that's,
that's the stuff that always fascinates me a little bit.
It's just because I think, I think it takes us.
I don't think we have a lot of people have that kind of thing.
I think that a lot of people were just like, oh, I don't,
I don't bother with that. I don't, I don't take the time to.
No, they don't have the time. They don't take the time.
And that's oddly enough where podcasts have sort of come in to fill
that void because in podcasts you can have two intelligent people just sitting
down talking about stuff in a way like, well, maybe that's not true.
Maybe this is true.
Let's find out let's discuss this and let's figure out why people are saying
this thing that is clearly untrue and saying it across multiple platforms.
Like what's the motivation behind this? Like, yep.
That's a thing that didn't exist before. Because first of all, in the past,
we didn't think of the news as being this thing that was lying to us.
And that's, that's a real recent thing.
And I think a lot of that was exacerbated during the time that Trump was
president, because the media was so upset that Trump had become the president.
And so upset that this,
what they thought this con man was now running the entire government that is
time to fight fire with fire.
And so they started attacking in the same way that they felt like he was
attacking the way he would, you know, call people by a nickname, you know,
lion Ted, or, you know, lion Hillary or crooked Hillary, or, you know,
you have all these nicknames for people call the news, the fake news. And like,
God, we have to fight fire with fire.
We have to tack the same way he's attacking,
but in doing so they've undermined their credibility to an almost
irreparable way. Right. And that's, what's scary. What's scary.
Is that the amount of people that actually trust the news now is lower. Yeah.
Lower than ever. And I think it's because we all believed they'd be,
we'll have an agenda, even, even with science,
people think we're so used to people having an agenda that people think that
there's an agenda with everything. Yeah. And there might be, I mean,
there's not to say that there isn't.
I think that that's the balance of it all to sit there and say, I'm, again,
I'm even victim of what we're talking about right now,
which is to say that while I believe that we probably lean this way.
We're not to say that it's a purified like that.
There's no such thing that it's not possible that there's some puppet master out
there. That's really kind of affecting this this way. What is that the third,
but I'm just saying that at the end of the day, um,
not everything has such a mastermind of full type of
thought process behind it. I think some of it is a lot more, um,
simple. I think there's a lot simpler. Sometimes.
It's about just money sometimes. It's about just.
It's about money. Yeah.
That's most of it's about narratives narratives that are set up in order to have
people extract money from a system. And that's,
what's really scary is that you follow the money and it's right there.
And you know,
many people will talk for years about getting money out of politics and getting
money out of [inaudible] to make it so that these people that make these
huge decisions,
that affect policy affect the way we're allowed to live our lives,
that there should be no money being exchanged in these decisions.
There should be no motivation, no one should profit from these things. No one,
no one who wants to be a politician should ever get
exorbitantly wealthy from being a politician.
But yet that's the case over and over and over again. And that's dirty. That's,
that's dirty. And that is what affects these people.
And that's what affects the way they behave and the way they communicate and the
things they talk about and the things they won't talk about.
Maybe sometimes there is as important watch the entire episode for free
only on Spotify.